In the last video we added code to react to the install and activate eventt and once we did so and reloaded
the page, we saw service worker registered and we saw installing service worker.
Now there are two things which are strange here -
the obvious one is the activate log is missing,
the maybe not so obvious one is why is service worker registered executing first,
shouldn't this execute once registration is done?
Well actually since we have two separate threads here, app.js, your normal Javascript code in the service
worker, Chrome can't guarantee the order here
but in theory this executes after you installed the service worker,
however you can't rely on this.
Now the more interesting thing however is the service worker activation, where is that console log, wasn't
that event fired?
Indeed it wasn't
and we can get more insights if we click on application.
There you see that the new service worker is waiting to activate.
You'll see it was received
but it wasn't activated yet.
Now it's important to understand if you have a tab open or if you have a window open with your page,
then new service workers will get installed but not activated.
The reason for this is that
the page is maybe still communicating with the old service worker and activating a new one which might
introduce breaking changes might break the running page.
Therefore the way to activate a new version is to close the existing tab and reopen it so that you have
all tabs closed, if you have multiple ones open, close all the tabs. Re-open it and now you see the new version
is activated and running and in the console, you now see installing and then activating.
Now we have that activating log too and we can have a look at the event there.
This is crucial to understand, if you change code in your service worker, you need to close all the existing
tabs and open a new one to load the newest version.
Now when using the developer tools, there are shortcuts, you can check update and reload
and then reload will have hard overwrite existing service workers,
so you don't need to close that page.
You can also click unregistered and reload to fetch a new version or click update or you maybe saw it,
we'll get a chance to see it later too,
there was this skip waiting link next to the unactivated service worker.
If you click this, it will also immediately skip waiting and activate the new service worker.
These are all tricks you can use during development, not in production though of course because your
users probably won't use this written here in the developer tools
and it's important to understand how it works behind the scenes anyways,
super important.